Docs: Enterprise Vault feature (#25895)
grafana/grafana: docs/sources/enterprise/vault.md

+++
title = "Vault"
description = ""
keywords = ["grafana", "vault", "configuration"]
type = "docs"
[menu.docs]
parent = "enterprise"
weight = 700
+++

# Vault integration

> Only available in Grafana Enterprise v7.1+.

> For organizations managing their secrets with [Hashicorp Vault](https://www.hashicorp.com/products/vault),

Reviewer: This sentence does not make sense. Consider making it two sentences.

Grafana integrates with Vault for [Configuration]({{< relref "../administration/configuration.md" >}})
and [Provisioning]({{< relref "../administration/provisioning.md" >}}).

> > Note: If you have Grafana set up for [high availability]({{< relref "../tutorials/ha_setup.md" >}}) we advise not to use dynamic secrets for provisioning files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:** If you have Grafana set up for [high availability]({{< relref "../tutorials/ha_setup.md" >}}), then we advise not to use dynamic secrets for provisioning files.
```

> Each Grafana instance is responsible for renewing its own leases. Your data sources' leases might expire when one of your Grafana servers shuts down.

## Configuration

> Before using Vault you need to activate it by providing a URL, authentication method (currently only token),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before using Vault, you need to activate it by providing a URL, authentication method (currently only token),
```

> and a token for your Vault service. Grafana will automatically renew the service token if it is renewable and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and a token for your Vault service. Grafana automatically renews the service token if it is renewable and
```

set up with a limited lifetime.

> If you're using short-lived leases, you can also configure how often Grafana should renew the lease and for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're using short-lived leases, then you can also configure how often Grafana should renew the lease and for
```

> how long. We recommend keeping the defaults here unless you run into problems.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
how long. We recommend keeping the defaults unless you run into problems.
```

```ini
[keystore.vault]
# Location of the Vault server
;url =
# Vault's namespace if using Vault with multi-tenancy
;namespace =
# Method for authenticating towards Vault. Vault is inactive if this option is not set
# Possible values: token
;auth_method =
# Secret token to connect to Vault when auth_method is token
;token =
# Time between checking if there are any secrets which needs to be renewed.
;lease_renewal_interval = 5m
# Time until expiration for tokens which are renewed. Should have a value higher than lease_renewal_interval
;lease_renewal_expires_within = 15m
# New duration for renewed tokens. Vault may be configured to ignore this value and impose a stricter limit.
;lease_renewal_increment = 1h
```

Example for `vault server -dev`:

```ini
[keystore.vault]
url = http://127.0.0.1:8200 # HTTP should only be used for local testing
auth_method = token
token = s.sAZLyI0r7sFLMPq6MWtoOhAN # replace with your key
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Using the Vault expander

> When you've configured Vault you'll need to set the configuration or provisioning files you wish to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you configure Vault, you must set the configuration or provisioning files you wish to
```

use Vault. Vault configuration is an extension of configuration's [variable expansion]({{< relref "../administration/configuration.md#variable-expansion" >}}) and follows the
`$__vault{<argument>}` syntax.

> The argument to Vault consists of three parts separated by a colon: the first part specifies which secrets engine

Reviewer: Make the three parts a bulleted list, each part with a separate bullet and treated like a separate sentence.

should be used, the second part which secret should be accessed, and the third part which field of that secret
should be used. For example, if you place a Key/Value secret for the Grafana admin user in _secret/grafana/admin_defaults_
the syntax for accessing it's _password_ field would be `$__vault{kv:secret/grafana/admin_defaults:password}`.

### Secrets engines

Vault supports many secrets engines which represents different methods for storing or generating secrets when requested by an
authorized user. Grafana supports a subset of these which are most likely to be relevant for a Grafana installation.

#### Key/Value

Grafana supports Vault's [K/V version 2](https://www.vaultproject.io/docs/secrets/kv/kv-v2) storage engine which
is used to store and retrieve arbitrary secrets as `kv`. 

```ini
$__vault{kv:secret/grafana/smtp:username}
```

#### Databases

> Vault's [Databases secrets engines](https://www.vaultproject.io/docs/secrets/databases) is a family of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Vault [databases secrets engines](https://www.vaultproject.io/docs/secrets/databases) is a family of
```

secret engines which shares a similar syntax and grants the user dynamic access to a database.
You can use this both for setting up Grafana's own database access and for provisioning data sources.

```ini
$__vault{database:database/creds/grafana:username}
```

> ### Examples

Reviewer: Please add a brief intro to this section, explaining to the reader what the examples are of and how to use them.

#### Configuration

The following is a partial example for using Vault to set up a Grafana configuration file's email and database credentials.

> Refer to the [Configuration]({{< relref "../administration/configuration.md" >}}) section for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Refer to [Configuration]({{< relref "../administration/configuration.md" >}}) for more information.
```

```ini
[smtp]
enabled = true
host = $__vault{kv:secret/grafana/smtp:hostname}:587
user = $__vault{kv:secret/grafana/smtp:username}
password = $__vault{kv:secret/grafana/smtp:password}

[database]
type = mysql
host = mysqlhost:3306
name = grafana
user = $__vault{database:database/creds/grafana:username}
password = $__vault{database:database/creds/grafana:password}
```

#### Provisioning

The following is a full examples of a provisioning YAML file setting up a MySQL data source using Vault's
database secrets engine.

> Refer to the [Provisioning]({{< relref "../administration/provisioning.md" >}}) section for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Refer to [Provisioning]({{< relref "../administration/provisioning.md" >}}) for more information.
```

+++
title = "Vault"
description = ""
keywords = ["grafana", "vault", "configuration"]
type = "docs"
[menu.docs]
parent = "enterprise"
weight = 700
+++

# Vault integration

> Only available in Grafana Enterprise v7.1+.

> If you are managing your secrets with [Hashicorp Vault](https://www.hashicorp.com/products/vault), you can use them for [Configuration]({{< relref "../administration/configuration.md" >}})

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you manage your secrets with [Hashicorp Vault](https://www.hashicorp.com/products/vault), you can use them for [Configuration]({{< relref "../administration/configuration.md" >}})
```

and [Provisioning]({{< relref "../administration/provisioning.md" >}}).

> **Note:** If you have Grafana set up for [high availability]({{< relref "../tutorials/ha_setup.md" >}}), then we advise not to use dynamic secrets for provisioning files.

> > Each Grafana instance is responsible for renewing its own leases. Your data sources' leases might expire when one of your Grafana servers shuts down.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Each Grafana instance is responsible for renewing its own leases. Your data source leases might expire when one of your Grafana servers shuts down.
```
